Thread by @__alpoge__ on Thread Reader App – Thread Reader App
Share this page!
×
Post
Share
Email
Enter URL or ID to Unroll
×
Unroll Thread
You can paste full URL like: https://x.com/threadreaderapp/status/1644127596119195649
or just the ID like: 1644127596119195649
How to get URL link on X (Twitter) App
On the Twitter thread, click on
or
icon on the bottom
Click again on
or
Share Via icon
Click on
Copy Link to Tweet
Paste it above and click "Unroll Thread"!
More info at
Twitter Help
levent
Subscribe
@__alpoge__
Sep  9
•
1 tweets
•
3 min read
•
Read on X
Bookmark
Gift Link
Save as PDF
unfortunately i contacted them on the night of wednesday, september 2nd making the following points
1.
i had intel they had information about math work i was doing and a few days before they had spun up a group to try to compete.
2.
i emphasized and reemphasized mine was a strictly personal mathematical collaboration
3.
that this was a collaboration that had been going on for a year
4.
that in my personal collaboration we were happy users of codex as well as obviously claude (and i later complimented astra explicitly after it came out for its help, and reassured i would obviously be sprinkling acknowledgments for it, previous models, and codex liberally in the writeups)
5.
that it would look terrible if openai were competing against mathematician consumers, and my collaborator (Tristan) wanted to email about this explicitly
6.
that i expected none but in the worst case intended to refuse marketing around the result we were working towards, being the fruit of a personal external academic collaboration, and wanted to express this because i figured worries about such marketing by their leadership was why a team was spun up to extraordinarily directly compete.
sebastien and i have in the past months had our fun pushing each other on twitter, but as i process it all i keep feeling bad about Tristan.
1.
neither of us could sleep Sunday night, so we went on a walk around the city. i finally asked him why fluids, and he told me it was the navier-stokes problem. he told me parts of the story about his classic nonuniqueness result with Vicol i hadn’t heard yet, and also about how he too grew up writing shaders as a kid and then switched to math
2.
tristan is a mathematician’s mathematician. he kept rock solid to his principles during the tense calls and negotiations, immediately turning down a career dream and million dollar prize for me, the sort of strange excited unclear-quasiuseful confused idiot in our collaboration. fifteen minutes later, his feet were up on his desk with three toes per foot peeking out of ripped socks
3.
our periodic call after i’d texted him euler blowup was just laughing for an hour or two. just laughing. i’d seen fable deal correctly with monge ampere in the equality case of ehrhart’s conjecture, so in some call before that i’d really pushed him for the craziest shit he could think of that i might try. i texted him the pdf as an update on that “diego luis 3” line, in which following his incredible expression of intuition i hodgepodge slapped together a bunch of our recent work, in particular correcting a bunch of better and lesser known papers in the literature, as well as on diego and luis’ ipm paper, and hoped an analogous construction for boussinesq (thus axisym euler) might work out. i managed to wade through enough confusion to insist to the model it stop telling me stupid regularity stuff about kelvin waves, and a rayleigh-taylor ansatz stuck. like i said, just laughing. when i texted him the pdf, the worst thing either of us had seen so far, i didn’t even comment on the euler blowup claim, only explaining why skepticism should remain for boussinesq, because i found it so shocking. i mean what the hell did i know, i must’ve confused myself by misunderstanding one adjective like i was used to with algebraic geometry. im so lucky to have been able to live that
4.
he managed all this this entire time with unclear sleep, timestamps continue to amaze me, due to just recently having a kid
it is obvious he deserves the same sort of praise he heaped upon luis, perhaps mutatis mutandis:)
https://x.com/__alpoge__/status/2097385316780777529
• • •
Missing some Tweet in this thread? You can try to
force a refresh
Post
Share
Email
Keep Current with
levent
Stay in touch and get notified when new unrolls are available from this author!
Add to "My Authors"
Read all threads
This Thread may be Removed Anytime!
Twitter may remove this content at anytime! Save it as PDF for later use!
Save this thread as PDF
Try unrolling a thread yourself!
Follow
@ThreadReaderApp
to mention us!
From a Twitter thread mention us with a keyword "unroll"
@threadreaderapp unroll
Practice here
first or read more on our
help page
!
More from @__alpoge__
levent
@__alpoge__
May 26
over the weekend i checked the obvious thing, which is whether mythos is able to solve the erdos unit distance problem, aka erdos problem #90. the answer is: yea
we had a little setup for testing models on erdos problems we threw together after the solution of #1196 and it seemed fair to drop it in there, block internet access, and make sure no information leakage based on openai’s solution occurred. isolated claude code instances hitting mythos are given the problem, asked to ideate on potential positive and negative avenues, then an instance summarizes each avenue and assigns instances the summary and an idea, and they’re off.
this meant some truly wacky starter ideas, but even from bad starts the model manages to pivot and find a solution. i found an argument equivalent to the openai path in its reasoning a number of times, but it much more frequently settled on the following argument, which i wanted to post in a lowkey manner because i thought people might find its simplicity cool.
Read 10 tweets
Did Thread Reader help you today?
Support us! We are indie developers!
This site is made by just two indie developers on a laptop doing marketing, support and development!
Read more about the story
.
Become a Premium Member
($3/month or $30/year) and get exclusive features!
Become Premium
Don't want to be a Premium member but still want to support us?
Make a small donation
by buying us coffee ($5) or help with server cost ($10)
Donate via Paypal
Or Donate anonymously using crypto!
Ethereum
0xfe58350B80634f60Fa6Dc149a72b4DFbc17D341E
copy
Bitcoin
3ATGMxNzCUFzxpMCHL5sWSt4DVtS8UqXpi
copy
Thank you for your support!
Follow Us!
Post
Share
Send Email!
×
Email the whole thread instead of just a link!
Separate emails with commas
Message
Here's a great thread you should read right now!
Send Thread As Email!
Email Successfully Sent!