Thread by @konstiwohlwend on Thread Reader App – Thread Reader App
Share this page!
×
Post
Share
Email
Enter URL or ID to Unroll
×
Unroll Thread
You can paste full URL like: https://x.com/threadreaderapp/status/1644127596119195649
or just the ID like: 1644127596119195649
How to get URL link on X (Twitter) App
On the Twitter thread, click on
or
icon on the bottom
Click again on
or
Share Via icon
Click on
Copy Link to Tweet
Paste it above and click "Unroll Thread"!
More info at
Twitter Help
Konsti Wohlwend
Subscribe
@konstiwohlwend
Sep  8
•
2 tweets
•
2 min read
•
Read on X
Bookmark
Gift Link
Save as PDF
drama summary for those confused:
- Aug 15th: Tristan Buckmaster & Levent Alpöge make progress on a few important math problems
- they do NOT have a proof for the $1,000,000 Millenium Prize problem. BUT, they do claim to have a proof for a similar (non-Millenium) Navier Stokes problem that could help lead the way there
- Levent works at Anthropic, but this research was independent of his work there, with a mix of GPT and Claude models. Tristan is not related to Anthropic.
- Early Sep: Rumor spreads to OpenAI that Anthropic has solved a major problem. Tristan emails OpenAI to clarify. without revealing the problem they solved or how they did it.
- After hearing of the rumor, OpenAI started researching Navier Stokes with a new internal model.
- Sep 6th: OpenAI's Sebastien Bubeck tells Tristan that they solved the $1,000,000 Millenium Prize Navier Stokes problem. The approach is very similar to Tristan & Levent's approach to the non-Millenium problem.
- Tristan is suspicious of the timing, as only few others were trying this approach. OpenAI says the model didn't access his user data directly, but leaves unanswered whether Tristan's chat conversations were part of the training.
- OpenAI says they would partially credit Tristan for the $1,000,000 discovery (even though Tristan did not solve the $1,000,000 problem) — but only if they remove Levent as an author, as he works for Anthropic.
- Sep 8th: Tristan refuses to remove Levent, and rushes to publish their results independently.
Currently unclear is whether Anthropic had a separate solution for the $1,000,000 problem, or whether the rumor was about Tristan & Levent's independent research.
https://x.com/konstiwohlwend/status/2097200251312701479
my personal opinion (just based on Tristan's perspective, things might change once we get Bubeck's side):
- i doubt openai used Tristan's user data. it's tightly protected, and i'd be surprised if even a senior researcher had access. training takes too long and one extra training point probably wouldn't change much
- i do believe that OpenAI probably heard about the rumor, and rushed to frontrun Anthropic. both of these companies have been copying each other's homework for a while now
- OpenAI asking Tristan to remove Levent as a co-author is shitty. the way they asked for it — with a "why would you ruin your career" — is definitely a threat
• • •
Missing some Tweet in this thread? You can try to
force a refresh
Post
Share
Email
Keep Current with
Konsti Wohlwend
Stay in touch and get notified when new unrolls are available from this author!
Add to "My Authors"
Read all threads
This Thread may be Removed Anytime!
Twitter may remove this content at anytime! Save it as PDF for later use!
Save this thread as PDF
Try unrolling a thread yourself!
Follow
@ThreadReaderApp
to mention us!
From a Twitter thread mention us with a keyword "unroll"
@threadreaderapp unroll
Practice here
first or read more on our
help page
!
Did Thread Reader help you today?
Support us! We are indie developers!
This site is made by just two indie developers on a laptop doing marketing, support and development!
Read more about the story
.
Become a Premium Member
($3/month or $30/year) and get exclusive features!
Become Premium
Don't want to be a Premium member but still want to support us?
Make a small donation
by buying us coffee ($5) or help with server cost ($10)
Donate via Paypal
Or Donate anonymously using crypto!
Ethereum
0xfe58350B80634f60Fa6Dc149a72b4DFbc17D341E
copy
Bitcoin
3ATGMxNzCUFzxpMCHL5sWSt4DVtS8UqXpi
copy
Thank you for your support!
Follow Us!
Post
Share
Send Email!
×
Email the whole thread instead of just a link!
Separate emails with commas
Message
Here's a great thread you should read right now!
Send Thread As Email!
Email Successfully Sent!