https://mathstodon.xyz/@tao/117237320796901560
2026-09-08T20:32:28.291Z
I wrote recently about how the collection of good, fruitful open problems is now being mined in a non-renewable fashion, leading to the potential scenario of these problems becoming scarce.  This may seem unintuitive at first, since the set of possible problems one could ask is infinite.  Perhaps the following analogy can help: a country or region can suffer a critical shortage of drinking water while simultaneously being surrounded by a massive ocean. One can easily generate any number of open problems in mathematics at will, such as working out the 10^10^10th digit of pi.  But the vast majority of such problems are not worth focusing attention on: they show no particular propensity to reveal any further insights or connections to other questions, or may either be too easy or too impossible relative to known techniques to learn anything from the exercise.  (1/4)

https://mathstodon.xyz/@tao/117237321472650215
2026-09-08T20:32:38.602Z
Working out whether a question is actually worth highlighting is a lengthy, deliberate, and subjective process, often informed by historical experience on what good mathematics was generated (or not generated) while working on earlier problems of this type.  In particular, being aware of the "difficulty landscape" in a field - what questions are very easy to answer with known methods, which ones can be solved but only with some effort, and which ones are impossible - is of crucial importance in making such determinations.  And some problems only become interesting after an external connection is made.  For instance, there could hypothetically be an unexpected connection between the Riemann zeta function and the 10^10^nth digits of pi for various n... at which point the previous question of determining the 10^10^10th digit suddenly becomes relevant again.  (I should emphasize though that this specific scenario is incredibly unlikely to actually be the case; I use it only as a hypothetical iilustration.) Every new advance in mathematics, whether it comes from technique, technology, or infrastructure (such as access to libraries of past literature) reduces the difficulty of solving problems.  This is generally a good thing; but it comes at the cost of flattening out the difficulty landscape of a field, to the point where one can no longer discern its geometry to the extent that promising questions can be extracted within the range of applicability of the tool.  Often this effect is counteracted by the ability of such a tool to enlarge the radius of the sphere of results one can plausibly reach, creating new boundaries to fruitfully explore. (2/4)

https://mathstodon.xyz/@tao/117237322160500501
2026-09-08T20:32:49.098Z
However, one notable feature of the current AI era is the absence of any definitive such boundaries.  While AI tools have flattened the difficulty landscape now in many areas of the subject, thus destroying the ability to locate promising new problems in that area, there are no clear frontiers that are separating the "AI-feasible" problems from the "AI-hard" problems (which certainly still exist, given that the difficulty level of problems are unbounded, and can even be undecidable).  This is in part due to the rapidly changing nature of the technology, but also compounded by the refusal of AI companies to disclose their negative results, or reveal the process towards obtaining their solutions. In fact, it is now the identification of a promising problem which is the scarce and precious resource.  We have now seen that even the rumor of someone working on a problem can trigger a massive amount of AI-powered effort to flatten it before the original research project has time to reach its full potential.  The incentives may now be pointing in the direction of no longer sharing any promising research directions with the broader community, which would reverse centuries of traditions of open science and do serious long-term damage to the future of the field. (3/4)

https://mathstodon.xyz/@tao/117237322698385581
2026-09-08T20:32:57.305Z
In short, the indiscriminate use of powerful solution-extraction tools can achieve the immediate short-term goal of solving problems at hand, but at the cost of sustaining the ecosystem for the next wave of progress, or in understanding the progress already obtained. While it may be technically infeasible to completely prohibit the use of automated tools to perform indiscriminate solution extraction, I believe that we can still designate many classes of problems as being desirous of a careful analysis that not only solves the problem, but identifies insights from the solution process, and learn more about the difficulty landscape for nearby problems, and for which raw solutions without such analysis would be of negligible or even negative value for these purposes.  This is analogous to how a modern food donation drive no longer accepts arbitrary contributions even when they are verified to be technically edible, but instead maintains explicit and socially accepted standards on what level of contributions are actually sought. (4/4)