
Title: Chen Yixin: Comprehensively Fortify the AI Security Barrier and Promote the Healthy and Orderly Deve

URL Source: https://sinocism.notion.site/Chen-Yixin-Comprehensively-Fortify-the-AI-Security-Barrier-and-Promote-the-Healthy-and-Orderly-Deve-3da84ece41d7816c9720eef8aef74cc1

Published Time: Thu, 09 Jul 2026 17:43:03 GMT

Markdown Content:
Chen Yixin, Secretary of the Party Committee and Minister of State Security, published a signed article in China Cyberspace magazine.

国家安全部党委书记、部长陈一新在《中国网信》杂志发表署名文章

全面筑牢人工智能安全屏障 推动人工智能健康有序发展

Chen Yixin

陈一新

Secretary of the Party Committee and Minister of State Security

国家安全部党委书记、部长

At present, artificial intelligence is leading the new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation deeper forward. The field of artificial intelligence has become the main battlefield of global scientific and technological competition and a new arena for strategic rivalry among major powers. The Party Central Committee attaches great importance to the development of artificial intelligence. General Secretary Xi Jinping has issued a series of important instructions, stressing the need to “comprehensively advance artificial intelligence technological innovation, industrial development and application empowerment, improve artificial intelligence regulatory systems and mechanisms, and firmly grasp the initiative in artificial intelligence development and governance.” We must thoroughly study and understand the spirit of General Secretary Xi Jinping’s important instructions, unswervingly implement the holistic approach to national security, accelerate the construction of a system for preventing and controlling artificial intelligence security risks, and use high-level security and highly effective governance to promote the healthy and orderly development of artificial intelligence in our country.

当前，人工智能引领新一轮科技革命和产业变革纵深推进，人工智能领域已成为全球科技竞争的主战场、大国战略博弈的新赛道。党中央高度重视人工智能发展，习近平总书记作出系列重要指示，强调要“全面推进人工智能科技创新、产业发展和赋能应用，完善人工智能监管体制机制，牢牢掌握人工智能发展和治理主动权”。我们要深入学习领会习近平总书记重要指示精神，坚定不移贯彻总体国家安全观，加快构建人工智能安全风险防治体系，以高水平安全、高效能治理推动我国人工智能健康有序发展。

牢牢把握完善人工智能治理的根本遵循

Since the 18th Party Congress, General Secretary Xi Jinping, from the strategic height of “promoting leapfrog development in our country’s science and technology, optimizing and upgrading industry, and achieving an overall leap in productivity” and “winning the initiative in global scientific and technological competition,” has made a series of important statements on improving artificial intelligence governance. We must study and understand them completely, accurately and comprehensively, with particular focus on the following eight aspects.

党的十八大以来，习近平总书记从“推动我国科技跨越发展、产业优化升级、生产力整体跃升”“赢得全球科技竞争主动权”的战略高度，对完善人工智能治理作出一系列重要论述。我们要完整、准确、全面学习领会，重点把握以下八个方面。

First, the strategic positioning of artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence is a strategic technology leading this round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation, with a powerful spillover-driven “leading goose” effect. Whoever can seize the development opportunities of artificial intelligence and other parts of the new economy will have grasped the pulse of the times. It must be treated as a strategic industry and integrated into the overall national development agenda.

一是人工智能的战略定位。人工智能是引领这一轮科技革命和产业变革的战略性技术，具有溢出带动性很强的“头雁”效应，谁能把握人工智能等新经济发展机遇，谁就把准了时代脉搏，必须将其作为战略性产业，融入国家发展全局。

Second, the development policy for artificial intelligence. We must give full play to the advantages of the new whole-of-nation system, adhere to self-reliance and self-strengthening, and emphasize an application-oriented approach. We must take innovation as the primary driving force and security as the bottom-line requirement, improve top-level design, strengthen work arrangements, and promote an overall and systemic leap in our country’s comprehensive artificial intelligence capabilities.

二是人工智能的发展方针。要充分发挥新型举国体制优势，坚持自立自强，突出应用导向。要把创新作为第一动力、把安全作为底线要求，完善顶层设计、加强工作部署，推动我国人工智能综合实力整体性、系统性跃升。

Third, the value orientation of artificial intelligence. We must keep the well-being of all humanity in mind, promote the healthy and orderly development of artificial intelligence in a beneficial, safe and fair direction, make satisfying the people’s aspirations for a better life the ultimate objective of scientific and technological innovation, closely integrate artificial intelligence with safeguarding and improving people’s livelihoods, and address pain points and difficult problems in areas such as education, health care, elder care and transportation.

三是人工智能的价值取向。要以全人类福祉为念，推动人工智能朝着有益、安全、公平方向健康有序发展，把满足人民对美好生活的向往作为科技创新的落脚点，推动人工智能同保障和改善民生紧密结合，解决教育、医疗、养老、交通等民生领域的痛点难点。

Fourth, the governance philosophy for artificial intelligence. We must coordinate development and security, accelerate the formulation and improvement of relevant laws and regulations, policy systems, application standards and ethical guidelines, build systems for technical monitoring, risk early warning and emergency response, strengthen assessment and prevention of potential risks arising from artificial intelligence development, and safeguard the people’s interests and national security.

四是人工智能的治理理念。要统筹好发展和安全，加紧制定完善相关法律法规、政策制度、应用规范和伦理准则，构建技术监测、风险预警、应急响应体系，加强对人工智能发展潜在风险的研判和防范，维护人民利益和国家安全。

Fifth, the key tasks for artificial intelligence. We must continuously strengthen basic research, concentrate resources on overcoming core technologies such as high-end chips and foundational software, and build autonomous, controllable and coordinated artificial intelligence foundational software and hardware systems. We must promote deep integration of scientific and technological innovation in artificial intelligence with industrial innovation and open up new arenas for the development of strategic emerging industries and future industries.

五是人工智能的重点任务。要持续加强基础研究，集中力量攻克高端芯片、基础软件等核心技术，构建自主可控、协同运行的人工智能基础软硬件系统。要推动人工智能科技创新与产业创新深度融合，开辟战略性新兴产业和未来产业发展新赛道。

Sixth, practical empowerment by artificial intelligence. We must comprehensively implement the “AI+” action, use artificial intelligence to lead changes in scientific research paradigms, strengthen the integration of artificial intelligence with industrial development, cultural development, livelihood protection and social governance, seize the commanding heights in industrial applications of artificial intelligence, and empower all sectors and industries across the board.

六是人工智能的实践赋能。全面实施“人工智能+”行动，以人工智能引领科研范式变革，加强人工智能同产业发展、文化建设、民生保障、社会治理相结合，抢占人工智能产业应用制高点，全方位赋能千行百业。

Seventh, supporting guarantees for artificial intelligence. We must coordinate the construction of computing-power infrastructure, deepen the development, utilization, opening and sharing of data resources, and unleash China’s advantages in data scale and market size. We must comprehensively use policies involving intellectual property, fiscal and tax measures, government procurement and other tools, improve mechanisms for scientific research support and talent evaluation, and cultivate high-quality talent.

七是人工智能的支撑保障。要统筹推进算力基础设施建设，深化数据资源开发利用和开放共享，释放中国数据规模与市场体量优势。要综合运用知识产权、财政税收、政府采购等政策，完善科研保障和人才评价机制，培养高素质人才。

Eighth, international cooperation on artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence should be an international public good that benefits all humanity. We must extensively carry out international cooperation, help Global South countries strengthen technological capacity-building, and bridge the global intelligence divide. We must promote stronger alignment and coordination among all parties on development strategies, governance rules and technical standards, and work toward the early formation of a global governance framework and standards and norms with broad consensus.

八是人工智能的国际合作。人工智能应该是造福全人类的国际公共产品。要广泛开展国际合作，帮助全球南方国家加强技术能力建设，弥合全球智能鸿沟。推动各方加强发展战略、治理规则、技术标准的对接协调，早日形成具有广泛共识的全球治理框架和标准规范。

General Secretary Xi Jinping’s series of important statements are farsighted, profound in thought and rich in content, and provide fundamental guidance for improving artificial intelligence governance. We must deeply understand and grasp their core meaning, essential spirit and practical requirements, and consciously apply them throughout every aspect and the entire process of improving artificial intelligence governance.

习近平总书记的一系列重要论述，高瞻远瞩、思想深邃、内涵丰富，为完善人工智能治理提供了根本遵循。我们要深刻领会把握其中蕴含的核心要义、精神实质和实践要求，自觉贯穿到完善人工智能治理的各方面和全过程。

充分认清人工智能发展带来的风险挑战

As the core engine of the new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation, artificial intelligence is penetrating every level of human society at unprecedented speed, breadth and depth, profoundly reshaping the global economic structure, the distribution of power, innovation paradigms and the logic of social governance. We must both see the opportunities and seize the initiative, and recognize the risks and hold the bottom line.

人工智能作为新一轮科技革命和产业变革的核心引擎，正以前所未有的速度、广度和深度渗透人类社会的各个层面，深刻重塑全球经济结构、权力格局、创新范式和社会治理逻辑。我们既要看到机遇、抢占先机，也要认清风险、守牢底线。

First, it systemically affects the political security environment. As of June 2026, the number of users of artificial intelligence products in our country exceeded 500 million, and average daily token calls surpassed 140 trillion; artificial intelligence applications have rapidly spread on a comprehensive scale. Various hostile forces and people with ulterior motives are abusing generative artificial intelligence technologies such as deepfake audio and video, AI-generated text and images, and intelligent bot armies to fabricate political rumors in low-cost, mass-produced fashion, spread harmful information and incite antagonistic emotions, carrying out public-opinion warfare and cognitive warfare against us and directly threatening our political security, system security and ideological security.

一是系统性影响政治安全环境。截至2026年6月，我国人工智能产品用户规模超过5亿人，日均词元调用量突破140万亿，人工智能应用已快速全面铺开。各种敌对势力和别有用心之人滥用深度伪造音视频、AI生成图文、智能水军等生成式人工智能技术，低成本、批量化炮制政治谣言、传播有害信息、煽动对立情绪，对我实施舆论战、认知战，直接威胁我政治安全、制度安全、意识形态安全。

Second, it disruptively reshapes the cyber offense-defense landscape. Marked by the “Mythos” (Claude Mythos) and “Cyber” (GPT-5.5-Cyber) large models recently introduced by U.S. technology companies, artificial intelligence technology is significantly increasing the efficiency of cyber-vulnerability discovery and malware development, as well as their weaponization. Cyber offense and defense are entering a new stage characterized by industrialized vulnerability discovery, fully automated offense and defense, and AI-versus-AI confrontation. Some countries and organizations now have the ability to rapidly discover vulnerabilities in batches, automatically chain together attack paths and complete complex hacking tasks. This substantially lowers the technical threshold and cost of conducting cyberattacks and creates serious risks and hidden dangers for our country’s critical information infrastructure.

二是颠覆性升级网络攻防态势。以美国科技公司近期推出的“神话”（Claude Mythos）、“赛博”（GPT-5.5-Cyber）大模型为标志，人工智能技术正显著提升网络漏洞挖掘、恶意软件开发效率和武器化水平，网络攻防进入漏洞工业化、攻防全自动、AI对AI的新阶段，部分国家、组织具备快速批量挖掘漏洞、自动串联攻击路径、完成复杂黑客任务的能力，大幅拉低实施网络攻击的技术门槛与成本投入，对我国关键信息基础设施带来严重风险隐患。

Third, it amplifies espionage and leakage risks at scale. Foreign espionage and intelligence agencies are making extensive use of technologies such as intelligent web crawlers, intelligent data mining and intelligent profiling and analysis to aggressively collect and obtain sensitive information and data including key national data, commercial secrets and citizens’ personal privacy. Some domestic users lack sufficient security awareness and use foreign artificial intelligence products to process sensitive information and transmit data overseas, causing large-scale leakage of domestic data. Open-source artificial intelligence agent tools such as “OpenClaw,” which became hugely popular and broke into the mainstream in the first half of 2026, also have structural problems such as remote manipulation of device-management permissions and leakage of users’ sensitive information.

三是规模性放大窃密泄密风险。境外间谍情报机关深度运用智能网络爬虫、智能数据挖掘、智能画像分析等技术，大肆搜集获取国家关键数据、商业秘密、公民个人隐私等敏感信息数据。国内部分用户安全意识不足，使用境外人工智能产品处理敏感信息和向境外输出数据，造成境内数据大规模外泄。2026年上半年爆火“出圈”的“龙虾”等开源人工智能体工具，也存在设备管理权限被远程操控、用户敏感信息泄露等结构性问题。

Fourth, monopolistic practices exacerbate imbalances in technological development. Certain countries exploit the advantages they have accumulated in areas such as basic artificial intelligence theory, model architectures and core computing power and, in the name of “safeguarding national security,” use tools such as entity lists, technology controls, monopolization of industry standards and closed-source ecosystems to strictly restrict relevant countries from importing cutting-edge technology and equipment and improving their scientific and technological innovation capabilities. This fragments global artificial intelligence industrial and supply chains and worsens imbalances in the development of the global intelligent industry.

四是垄断性加剧科技发展失衡。有关国家利用在人工智能基础理论、模型架构、核心算力等方面积累的优势，以“维护国家安全”之名，通过制定实体清单、实施技术管制、垄断行业标准、建立闭源生态等手段，严格限制相关国家引进前沿技术设备、提升科技创新能力，割裂全球人工智能产业链、供应链，加剧全球智能产业发展失衡。

Fifth, it structurally shocks the social governance system. Artificial intelligence applications bring a large number of uncertain factors to social governance and public order. Algorithmic “black boxes” and data “poisoning” may amplify existing social biases; misuse of personal information in the course of data use may trigger crises of user trust; and automated system decision-making creates difficult questions of responsibility. In particular, the rapid development of artificial intelligence has broken through traditional frameworks of technology governance, causing existing legal norms, ethical principles and governance mechanisms repeatedly to lag behind in practice, making it difficult to form effective institutional constraints and regulatory systems.

五是结构性冲击社会治理体系。人工智能应用对社会治理和公共秩序带来大量不确定性因素，算法“黑箱”、数据“投毒”可能放大已有社会偏见，数据使用过程中的个人信息滥用可能引发用户信任危机，系统自动决策造成责任归属难题，特别是人工智能高速发展突破了传统技术治理框架，导致现有法律规范、伦理原则与治理机制在实践中频频滞后，难以形成有效的制度约束和监管体系。

Sixth, it fundamentally transforms the form of military struggle. Artificial intelligence technology is pushing warfare into an era of intelligentization. Whoever can use algorithms to achieve more refined perception, more accurate judgment and more precise strikes will be able to seize the initiative on the battlefield. In the U.S.-Israel-Iran conflict, for example, military applications of artificial intelligence have given rise to intelligent integration of intelligence, intelligent decision support, intelligent target recognition, intelligent support for actual combat and intelligent cognitive shaping. Artificial intelligence is moving from a “supporting role” on the battlefield to a “key role.”

六是根本性变革军事斗争形态。人工智能技术正在推动战争形态进入智能化时代，谁能通过算法实现更精细的感知、更精准的判断、更精确的打击，谁就能掌握战场主动权。如美以伊冲突中，人工智能军事化应用催生情报智能融合、决策智能辅助、目标智能识别、实战智能支持、认知智能塑造，人工智能正在从战场“辅助配角”变成“关键角色”。

系统推进人工智能治理的重点举措

In the face of the complex risks and challenges brought by the rapid iterative development of artificial intelligence technology, we must take General Secretary Xi Jinping’s series of important statements as our fundamental guide, fully implement the reform arrangements in the 15th Five-Year Plan for advancing the modernization of the national security system and capabilities, accelerate improvements in artificial intelligence governance, and effectively prevent and defuse security risks in the artificial intelligence field.

面对人工智能技术快速迭代发展带来的复杂风险挑战，我们要以习近平总书记系列重要论述为根本遵循，全面落实“十五五”规划关于推进国家安全体系和能力现代化的改革部署，加快提升人工智能治理水平，有效防范化解人工智能领域安全风险。

First, uphold the Party’s overall leadership. Thoroughly study and implement Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, especially General Secretary Xi Jinping’s important thinking on building China into a cyber power; uphold the Party’s control over the internet and over data; incorporate artificial intelligence governance into the overall layout for building a cyber power and Digital China; strengthen top-level design; improve the governance framework; adhere to the correct orientation; transform the advantages of Party leadership into effectiveness in artificial intelligence governance; and guide artificial intelligence to develop for good and advance steadily over the long term.

一是坚持党的全面领导。深入学习贯彻习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想特别是习近平总书记关于网络强国的重要思想，坚持党管互联网、党管数据，把人工智能治理纳入网络强国、数字中国建设整体布局，强化顶层设计，完善治理框架，坚持正确导向，把党的领导优势转化为人工智能治理效能，引领人工智能向上向善、行稳致远。

Second, improve system-wide coordination and joint effectiveness. Firmly establish a holistic security concept, deeply integrate artificial intelligence safety into security work in other key fields, fully leverage the advantages of the new whole-of-nation system, establish and improve cross-field and cross-department coordination mechanisms, systematically strengthen the aggregation and sharing of capabilities involving data resources, platform facilities and other areas, and continuously optimize mechanisms for work consultation, coordinated action, decision-making advice, risk assessment and security review. We must coordinate efforts to improve the relevant legal, strategic, policy and risk-prevention systems and form an integrated force for safeguarding artificial intelligence safety.

二是提升体系作战合力。牢固树立大安全理念，把人工智能安全深度融入其他重点领域安全工作，充分发挥新型举国体制优势，建立健全跨领域、跨部门协作机制，系统强化数据资源、平台设施等能力汇聚共享，持续优化工作会商、协同联动、决策咨询、风险评估、安全审查等机制，统筹推进完善相关法治体系、战略体系、政策体系、风险防控体系，形成维护人工智能安全的整体合力。

Third, strengthen risk sensing and early warning. Establish and improve artificial intelligence safety supervision platforms, continuously enrich technical tools for evaluation and testing, threat analysis and other functions, strengthen security-risk monitoring and early warning, deepen research on major issues such as trends in artificial intelligence development, scientifically assess the potential risks brought by emerging technologies, accurately grasp relevant patterns, developments and trends, promptly close vulnerabilities and hidden risks, and regularly issue security-risk prevention guidelines to provide guidance for industry enterprises, government departments and other types of actors.

三是强化风险感知预警。建立完善人工智能安全监管平台，持续丰富评估评测、威胁分析等技术工具，加强安全风险监测预警，深化对人工智能发展态势等重大问题的研究，科学研判新兴技术带来的潜在风险，准确把握相关规律、动向、趋势，及时堵塞漏洞隐患，定期发布安全风险防范指南，为行业企业、政府部门等各类主体提供指导。

Fourth, intensify scientific and technological innovation. Increase research efforts on the basic principles of artificial intelligence and on key core technologies such as computing chips, development frameworks and application software; accelerate the establishment of artificial intelligence infrastructure such as national and local data resource pools and the “Eastern Data, Western Computing” collaborative network; encourage and guide government, enterprises, research institutions and other actors to strengthen collaboration; and have industry, academia and research work together to build an artificial intelligence ecosystem. We must ensure that key core technologies are autonomous and controllable, firmly grasp technological sovereignty, and achieve positive interaction and coordinated progress between innovation-enabled development and security governance.

四是加大科技创新力度。加大对人工智能领域基础原理和算力芯片、开发框架、应用软件等关键核心技术的科研攻关，加快建立国家和地方数据资源池、“东数西算”协同网络等人工智能基础设施，鼓励和引导政府、企业、科研机构等多主体加强协作，产学研协同构建人工智能生态系统，确保关键核心技术自主可控，牢牢掌握技术主权，实现创新赋能与安全治理的良性互动、协同并进。

Fifth, improve the legal safeguards system. Fully implement the Cybersecurity Law of the People’s Republic of China and the Counter-Espionage Law of the People’s Republic of China; accelerate the introduction of specialized laws and regulations targeting artificial intelligence technology research and development, application and regulation; improve full-chain regulatory rules and standards covering technology R&D, application, risk prevention and control, and responsibility tracing, with a focus on prominent issues such as algorithmic security, data protection, ethical norms and privacy rights; improve regulatory and law-enforcement mechanisms; make industry regulators, artificial intelligence companies and other actors fulfill their legal responsibilities; and punish in accordance with law illegal and criminal activities that use artificial intelligence to steal data, manufacture and spread harmful information, and commit other offenses.

五是完善法治保障体系。全面贯彻实施《中华人民共和国网络安全法》《中华人民共和国反间谍法》，加快推进出台针对人工智能技术研发、应用和监管的专项法律法规，围绕算法安全、数据保护、伦理规范、隐私权益等突出问题，健全覆盖技术研发、应用落地、风险防控、责任追溯的全链条监管规则和标准体系，完善监管执法机制，压实行业监管部门、人工智能企业等各类主体的法律责任，依法惩治利用人工智能实施数据窃取、制造传播有害信息等违法犯罪活动。

Sixth, innovate forms of publicity and mobilization. Seize important occasions such as the April 15 National Security Education Day and National Cybersecurity Publicity Week, make use of traditional media and new-media platforms and channels, vigorously publicize General Secretary Xi Jinping’s important statements on artificial intelligence governance, and carry out in-depth policy explanations, legal interpretation, case analysis and risk warnings. We must forcefully expose and criticize actions by individual countries to erect technological barriers and use artificial intelligence to infiltrate and steal secrets from us, and counter smears and vilification, suppression and blockades directed against us.

六是创新宣传动员形式。抓住“4·15”全民国家安全教育日、国家网络安全宣传周等重要节点，运用传统媒体及新媒体平台渠道，大力宣传习近平总书记关于人工智能治理的重要论述，深入做好政策宣讲、法律解读、案例剖析、风险提醒等工作，有力揭批个别国家打造技术壁垒、利用人工智能对我渗透窃密等行径，反制对我污蔑抹黑、遏压封锁。

Seventh, deepen the effectiveness of international cooperation. Uphold the global security governance vision of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, deepen international cooperation in scientific and technological innovation, resolutely resist hegemonism, technological barriers and closed exclusion, establish a fair and open international artificial intelligence rules system, promote technological exchange and the open sharing of achievements, advance inclusive and balanced development, bridge the digital and intelligent divide, and guide artificial intelligence to better benefit the people and the world.

七是深化国际合作成效。秉持共商共建共享的全球安全治理观，深化国际科技创新合作，坚决抵制霸权主义、技术壁垒、封闭排他，建立公平开放的国际人工智能规则体系，推动技术交流和成果开放共享，推进普惠均衡发展，弥合数智鸿沟，引导人工智能更好造福人民、造福世界。