​

Conflict of interest policy (version 1.0)
Last updated August 28, 2026
METR is a nonprofit which conducts research and evaluations to improve public
understanding of the capabilities and risks of frontier AI systems.
This policy concerns projects in which decision makers or the general public may rely on our
work with a frontier AI company1 to understand what level of risk that specific company is
posing. Here, we’ll refer to projects used this way as “company-identifying risk assessments”,
as distinct from research on risks broadly.2 As the possibility of loss of control becomes more
imminent, the accuracy and impartiality of such risk assessments will become increasingly
important.
In this policy, we commit to processes for managing conflicts of interest which may impact
the reliability of our conclusions. Primarily, the policy covers:
●​ The key test and a process for identifying and determining responses to any conflicts
which may arise in a company-identifying risk assessment.
●​ A commitment to disclosing unmitigated conflicts in that project’s external-facing
report(s), and what mitigations, if any, are sufficient for different kinds of potential
conflicts.
●​ Who specifically is responsible for carrying out these actions (named in bold).

Policies regarding individual staff
How to understand the materiality of a conflict of interest
Write down the full details of any potential conflict(s) of staff working on the risk assessment,
and how those staff contributed. If we published that in full, would a reasonable person not
affiliated with METR have materially less trust in the assessment?
1

By frontier AI company, we mean the AI companies developing models with the strongest
autonomous capabilities (for which METR might run a high-stakes risk assessment, or do so with a
direct competitor). Examples as of July 2026 include Anthropic, Google DeepMind, Meta
Superintelligence Labs, OpenAI and SpaceXAI, but these may change over time. Please consult your
manager if you are unsure whether an entity is in scope.
2
Some notable examples of similar work which we do not class as company-identifying risk
assessments include:
●​ Developing risk models and risk assessment methodologies.
●​ Work on infrastructure used in risk assessments.
●​ Combining information about several companies into a report about risk across the industry
which does not discuss the level of risk posed by specific companies.

If in doubt about how to manage a potential issue, return to this test.

Main process
When setting up a company-identifying risk assessment, the individual responsible for
determining who works on the company-identifying risk assessment will:
1.​ Hand this responsibility to another individual if you have a Tier 2 or higher conflict as
specified below.
2.​ Require potential project staff to:
○​ Share any interest of theirs which might cause a reasonable person not
affiliated with METR to have less trust in the project’s conclusions, using this
form.
○​ Report potential policy violations.
Optionally, you can adapt this template3.
3.​ If any potential project staff has a conflict, determine what team selection and
mitigations would maximize the reliability of the risk assessment for its intended
audience, balancing required skills and potential bias. (Review the example conflicts
and disclosure requirements to calibrate your approach. Also, check that the proposed
team is compliant with applicable external rules.) If maximizing the reliability of the risk
assessment for its intended audience may require proceeding with conflicts which
require external disclosure, prepare external disclosure.
4.​ Write simple documentation4 of the decisions made, in case needed for future review.
(See review of potential violations.) Share this with the most senior other unconflicted
individual read in to the company-identifying risk assessment.
If you would benefit from assistance, consult METR’s operations lead, who oversees
METR-wide implementation of this policy and can also direct you to others who could help.

Detail: Example conflicts and external disclosure requirements
Scope: Disclosure requirements apply to staff who make or oversee a material contribution to
subjective judgements about the company which would reasonably be expected to materially
impact the conclusions of the risk assessment. Examples of functions which may be
sufficiently objective and thus out of scope include:
●​ Building infrastructure and tooling.
●​ Executing predefined benchmarks or other predefined data generation.
3

Links to internal forms have been removed in the public version.
For example, this could simply be a statement that the project team will follow the rules laid out here
in full, any actions that requires, and links to the relevant staff’s disclosures. If there is a conflict and you
decide to apply weaker mitigations than standard, you should additionally write down this decision,
including any restrictions on how the individual is allowed to engage with the project, how well you
expect this to mitigate risk of bias in the project’s conclusions, and your evidence and reasoning for
this.
4

The following table describes examples of conflicts which could arise between METR staff
and frontier AI companies, and under what circumstances they must be disclosed in that
project’s external-facing report(s).
Example conflicts which could arise between
project staff and a company subject to a
company-identifying risk assessment
Tier 3
●​ Current employment, contracting or
other paid work with the company, or
pursuit of such work (including through
informal conversation5).
●​ Ongoing agreements which may impair
frankness, such as non-disparagement.
●​ Current direct equity or debt holdings6 in
the company or a reasonable economic
proxy for that specific company,7 or any
other financial instrument of similar
effect,8 including interests via marriage.
(Exposure via indices is not prohibited.)
●​ A current romantic relationship with an
employee of the company.
●​ Immediate family employed at the
company.
●​ Current indebtedness to the company or
one of its employees.9
●​ Gifts from an employee of the company
which sum to greater than $100 in value
from that individual in the 6 months

5

Circumstances under which such a
conflict requires external disclosure –
in that project’s external-facing
report(s)
Always requires external disclosure.
Should you decide to involve a person
with a Tier 3 conflict, consider whether
the Tier 2 mitigations, below, would be
appropriate.

That is, during a risk assessment project with that specific company, you should always decline to
discuss employment even if asked, else this would require public disclosure and you may be required to
drop out of the project. Example response if asked about a role while you are working on, or may soon
work on, a project for which this would pose a conflict: “To minimize conflicts in the kind of work I do,
I’m currently not considering roles with frontier AI companies.”
6
Examples: vested or unvested equity, stock options, deferred compensation interests, or security
interests such as SAFEs.
7
That is, assets for which you see a large part of their value being their exposure to a specific AI
company. Examples: Softbank/Oracle or SK Telecom/Zoom.
8
This includes digital assets and prediction markets.
9
This excludes amounts owed in the ordinary course of splitting shared expenses.

preceding the company-identifying risk
assessment.10
Tier 2
●​ A Tier 3-type conflict with a direct
competitor of the company.
●​ Currently living with an employee of the
company.
●​ A historical romantic relationship with an
employee of the company which ended in
the last 12 months.
Tier 1
●​ Close friendship with an employee of the
company.

Requires external disclosure unless an
unconflicted staff member thoroughly11
checks12 and takes personal
responsibility for the accuracy of all
work by this individual on or
incorporated into the main report.

Requires external disclosure unless
there is no contact with said friend
about the project (even if the friend is
on a relevant team).

A conflict might arise which does not clearly fit into any of these categories. If in doubt about
how to handle a potential issue, return to the key test.

Detail: Preparing external disclosure
For risk assessments requiring extremely rare expertise, proceeding with a conflict requiring
disclosure may be worthwhile in order to bring that expertise to bear.13 However, the audience
of the risk assessment (often including the general public) must be informed of such
weaknesses through disclosure in that project’s external-facing report(s).
If you choose to proceed with a conflict requiring disclosure:

10

This excludes shared expenses, such as a shared meal or other shared item, so long as you later
reimburse the other party for your part.
11
Thorough checking should follow at least the usual quality of review of METR research, entailing
understanding the data and analysis well enough to be able to understand the validity of the
conclusions, and including consistency checks, understanding the provenance of statistics, and
reading through some of the underlying data.
12
The individual responsible for determining who works on the company-identifying risk assessment
should make a note to use the following process or another in good time before the end of the project
to ensure any such content is checked: (1) Assign an unconflicted individual to tag components of the
final report or work incorporated into it to which the conflicted staff member contributed, using
interviewing contributors, Git tools and Google Docs history as needed. (2) Assign unconflicted
individual(s) to thoroughly check and take responsibility for these sections (commenting on the main
report that they have done so).
13
In addition, there may be unforeseen cases in which our disclosure requirements are overly
conservative. One heuristic for this is whether we would see negligible risk of bias even if the role in
question was carried out by staff of the company itself. We should nonetheless disclose such cases.

1.​ Write down language for disclosing the conflict(s) in that project’s external-facing
report(s). The individual’s identity should be anonymized to the extent practical. Make
a note to ensure that this language is included in those report(s).
○​ This is a key tool for ensuring the benefits of proceeding with an unmitigated
conflict truly outweighs its costs.
○​ If there are multiple disclosures between project staff, consider the disclosures
in their totality. (See the key test.)
2.​ Require the most senior other unconflicted individual read in to the
company-identifying risk assessment to review and approve the documentation of the
decision and the disclosure of unmitigated conflicts. They should consider:
○​ Whether the proposed disclosure provides enough information for a
reasonable outside party to understand approximately how much risk of bias is
incurred.
○​ Whether the participation of the affected individual will overall make the
project more trustworthy, when considering both the expertise they bring to
the project and the reality or perception of reduced impartiality.
3.​ Provide the disclosure to our point of contact at the company that the project is
focused on (if the project is a collaboration).

Review of potential violations
When METR’s operations lead, the individual responsible for determining who works on
the company-identifying risk assessment or another staff member receives a notification of
a potential policy violation, they will report those potential violations to the members of the
leadership team who are read in to the company-identifying risk assessment.
The members of the leadership team who are read in to the company-identifying risk
assessment will review any potential violation of this policy, unless it potentially impacts the
CEO’s impartiality, in which case it will be reviewed by independent members of the board.
This review will:
●​ Judge whether the individual should be removed from the company-identifying risk
assessment or should have limits set on how they may engage with the project.
○​ Provisional recusal will be used prior to the review unless the concern is
low-confidence.
○​ In the case that there are no appropriate reviewers read in to the project, the
review will occur after the project is complete, and therefore full recusal from
the project will therefore be necessary.
●​ Determine whether a deliberate or reckless violation occurred which warrants
disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
●​ Determine what process changes should be made to prevent future such violations.

Ensuring individual staff understand the policy
METR’s operations lead will require any staff who may be interested in contributing to
company-identifying risk assessments, upon onboarding and semiannually, to:
●​ Review the policies regarding individual staff, and document any potential conflicts to
ensure they understand the policy’s potential implications for their work.
●​ Either:
○​ Share the documentation with their manager and [address]14, or
○​ Confirm to their manager and [address] that they have documented any
potential conflicts privately and understood their potential future implications,
but decline to share that documentation.15
●​ Report potential policy violations via a standard form.
Additionally, remind staff of which of their colleagues they may wish to speak with if they have
questions.

Practices regarding METR as a whole
METR’s CEO will continue to promote a culture of impartiality. Cultural matters are
necessarily less clear-cut than the personnel policies outlined above. However, a notable
example of concrete implementation is METR’s core principles:
●​ Core principles which guide METR’s strategy are typically reviewed in team strategy
days approximately quarterly. They feed into the selection and execution of METR
projects.
●​ One such core principle is “truthseeking, trustworthy”. That is, METR attempts to
figure out the truth and communicate it accurately.
○​ Examples of the care METR puts into communicating findings as accurately as
possible can be found in Notes on Scientific Communication at METR.
●​ Another core principle is “honest about important things, even if weird”. This builds on
the “truthseeking, trustworthy” principle, emphasizing that METR does not censor its
communications when it discovers surprising evidence.
●​ Another is “not zero-sum / advancing one group over another”. That is, METR
neutrally assesses risks, and never sets out to impact the relative position of
companies.
METR’s finance lead will ensure that METR itself continues to not be financially dependent on
frontier AI companies:
14

As of August 2026, [address] is accessible to METR’s head of operations. It will be accessible to other
staff responsible for METR-wide risk management in the future.
15
Sharing this documentation enables METR to plan ahead for staffing important projects, and
prevents surprises at the point of launching such projects. However, to protect employee privacy, we
only mandate sharing when you are under consideration for joining a company-identifying risk
assessment.

●​ Do not invest in direct equity or debt of frontier AI companies or reasonable economic
proxies for specific companies.16
●​ Decline donations made by or at the direction of17 frontier AI companies or their
employees.18,19 Use of free compute credits is acceptable.
●​ To date, we have not received payment for work on company-identifying risk
assessments (or other work with frontier AI companies). If we ever do, the payment
terms must not be contingent on the results of the risk assessment.
●​ (More generally, METR strives to be supported by broad and independent funders.)
METR’s operations lead will ensure METR is not directly answerable to frontier AI companies.
Concretely:
●​ Employees of frontier AI companies, or individuals with a substantial fraction of their
net worth invested in a frontier AI company, are not eligible to serve on METR’s board.

Revisions
We may revise this policy to better balance staffing projects with highly capable staff,
protecting our impartiality, and executing efficiently. If so, we will publish the updated policy
by the time it goes into effect.

16

Details as per the rules for employees.
This prohibits both direct donations and situations like a frontier AI company employee who is a
board member of or advisor to a public charity (e.g. DAF provider) instructing that charity to donate to
METR. It does not prohibit funding from a public grantmaking organization that itself has received
funding from frontier AI company employee(s), so long as such employee(s) are uninvolved in
grantmaking decisions.
18
For example, we have declined grants offered by the founders of multiple AI companies.
19
In the rare case that it is unclear who directed a donation, we will seek confirmation that it was not
directed by a proscribed entity or individual if it amounts to 0.1% or more of METR’s annual income.
17

